website: 2.0-2.3 post draft (#3370)
transloadit/uppy: website/src/_posts/2021-12-2.0-2.3.md

---

> title: "Life after 2.0: new Audio plugin, Status Bar improvements" 

Reviewer: Not sure yet about the title. I'll think about it

date: 2021-12-15

> author: 

Reviewer: missing @mifi

  - aduh95
  - murderlon
  - arturi
image: https://uppy.io/images/blog/2.0/uppy-2-0-cover.jpg
published: true
---

After the 2.0 release we’ve been busy refactoring, updating dependencies, moving from npm to Yarn 3 and much-needed housekeeping. We’ve also released a new Audio plugin, improved Status Bar and Unsplash

<!--more-->

## Audio plugin

Uppy now has a new `@uppy/audio` plugin for recording audio memos, messages and sounds. Check it out [on the demo page](https://uppy.io/examples/dashboard/).

<video alt="Audio plugin demo" muted autoplay loop>
  <source src="/images/blog/2.0-2.3/audio-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag: https://uppy.io/images/blog/2.0-2.3/audio-demo.mp4
</video>

> ## Status bar error state improvements

Reviewer: Personally, I find this not too significant of a change. I would put it further down at least

Status bar plugin would get confused about upload errors in Uppy, and we’ve addressed that:

* Error state is shown if only _one_ failed file instead of _all_ failed files. Used to be stuck in the uploading state when a file failed.
* Added “x of x files uploaded” below “Upload failed” for extra context.
* Improved the error details button styling in the statusbar and the file info card.
* Status bar state is set to complete if the user manually removes the failed files.

![status bar improvements screenshot](/images/blog/2.0-2.3/status-bar-improvements.jpg)

> PR [#3299](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/3299).

Reviewer: Since when do we add PRs in the blogpost?

Reviewer 2: I think that's new indeed, although that looks fine to me. Do you have any thoughts on it yourself?

Author: https://uppy.io/blog/2021/04/1.27/#Dashboard-Dynamic-metaFields we do sometimes, usually when I think there might be interesting details in there.

I think the feedback is becoming a bit harsh? 🙈

Reviewer: > I think the feedback is becoming a bit harsh? 🙈

Pardon me, couldn't have phrased that better for sure. I think PR links could be added, yes. Was mostly curious if that's a new thing or not

> ## `@uppy/unsplash` is now production ready

Reviewer: We should make sure the prod API keys are in hosted companion before releasing this post

Author: That could delay the post, if the keys are already available, then yes. Can we make sure Unsplash is on uppy.io and API2 soon, @mifi?

Reviewer: The keys are already available yes

Reviewer 3: For api2, I'm thinking that because we have quite big changes (not breaking but potentially bug-introducing) from #3159 we may want to test it first on uppy.io

For uppy.io, I still haven't had time to look into this #3362

Author: But do we need to upgrade Companion to enable Unsplash? I think that code has already been there quite a while, so we could just add keys.

Reviewer: Those are definitely needed yes.

> The Unsplash plugin has been refactored to make it brand compliant, show author of image in UI, improve maintainability and fix bugs. We’ve also finally added [docs to the website](https://uppy.io/docs/unsplash/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Unsplash plugin has received an update to its UI, it now shows the author of an image, and generally looks better. You can view the [docs on the website](https://uppy.io/docs/unsplash/).
```

## `@uppy/unsplash` is now production ready

The Unsplash plugin has been refactored to make it brand compliant, show author of image in UI, improve maintainability and fix bugs. We’ve also finally added [docs to the website](https://uppy.io/docs/unsplash/).

<video alt="Audio plugin demo" muted autoplay loop>
  <source src="/images/blog/2.0-2.3/unsplash-demo.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag: https://uppy.io/images/blog/2.0-2.3/unsplash-demo.mp4
</video>

PR [#3196](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/3196).

## Refactor locale scripts & generate types and docs

This is an internal change, but important nonetheless. Our locales now live in a separate `locale.js` file for every plugin instead of `this.defaultLocale` in the class. The docs and types are automatically updated when we add/remove new locale strings.

See PR [#3276](https://github.com/transloadit/uppy/pull/3276) for details.

## Yarn v3 instead of npm

We’ve switched the uppy repo to Yarn 3 to improve package install performance — with our complex dependency graph and over 30 packages in a monorepo, we are seeing a speed increase of over a few minutes!

> If you are an Uppy contributor, please run the following commands to enable Corepack:
> 
> Get started with the following commands:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We are using Corepack to ensure all Uppy contributors are using the same version of Yarn. If you are an Uppy contributor, please run the following commands to enable Corepack:
```
